notebooks/data_matching.md, before:

Data matching ideas
===================

REPD and OSM matching
--------

**Notes:**

1. "location" OSM field shouldn't be "roof" for REPD installations (these are large solar farms). All those with a current REPD tag have "location" of "ground" or "surface".
2. Consider OSM object types: https://wiki.openstreetmap.org/wiki/Elements - perhaps may geographical matches will result from "nodes" that are not currently tagged with an REPD id but the equivalent "way" or "relation" does already have the REPD id
3. Dan Stowell has already done some work to combine OSM entries from the same solar plant with the "plantref" column, however it may not be useful to use this for matching if we ultimately want to use OSM data directly, rather than Dan's processing csv. Could be useful for validation purposes? (see data/as_received/solarpv-osm-uk-data-2019-11-17/dan_stowell_analysis/compile_osm_solar.py)
4. Since REPD contains things other than Solar panels, be sure to filter on Technology Type = Solar Photovoltaics
5. Looks like most of the OSM entries with "capacity" are those taken directly from REPD (already have a tagged REPD id), so not sure how useful capacity will be for matching

|  | Counts |
|---|---|
| OSM total | 126,939|
| REPD total | 5,686 |
|---|---|
| OSM without REPD id | 126,046|
| OSM with REPD id | 893|
| OSM with REPD id and objtype = node `*`| 0|
| OSM with REPD id and objtype = way `*`| 727|
| OSM with REPD id and objtype = relation `*`|166|
| REPD ids present in OSM `**` | 933 |
| OSM with REPD id not in REPD | 1 (one of the OSM entries appears to have the repd_id `0`)|
| OSM with REPD id in REPD |892 |
|---|---|
| Unique REPD ids in OSM | 924 |
| REPD ids in OSM inc. duplicates | 932 |
| REPD with id not in OSM |4,762|
|---|---|
| OSM with recorded capacity |1116 |
| OSM with recorded capacity and REPD id |872 |
| OSM with recorded capacity without REPD id | 244|
|---|---|
| OSM with REPD id and location = 'roof' | 0|
| OSM with REPD id and location = 'ground' | 22|
| OSM with REPD id and location = 'surface' | 9|
|---|---|
| OSM with "plantref"| 7056|
| OSM with "plantref" and REPD id |845 |
| OSM with "plantref" and no REPD id | 6211|

- `*` OSM object types: https://wiki.openstreetmap.org/wiki/Elements
- `**` including those within the same OSM entry and any that are not genuine REPD ids (found in REPD)

### Latitude/Longitude coordinate matching

**Distances from OSM with REPD id to matching REPD:**

| | Distance (meters) |
|---|---|
| Min | 6|
| 1st Q. | 89|
| Med |251 |
| Mean | 747|
| 3rd Q. | 542|
| Max | 149,610|

**Stats on REPD tagged OSM records:**

|  | Counts |
|---|---|
| OSM with REPD id with closest geographical match in REPD having that repd_id | 765|
| OSM with REPD id with closest geographical match in REPD being co-located repd_id | 3|
| OSM with REPD id with closest geographical match in REPD being non-matching/ non-co-located| 165|

**Matching results:**

| Match rule | Result |
|---|---|
| 0   | 3655 |
| 1a  | 3155 |
| 1b  | 158 |
| 1c  | 2979 |
| 1d  | 18  |
| 2   | 15  |
| 3a   | 110 |
|3b    | 50  |
|4     | 6281|
|5a     | 5231|
|5b    |224|
|5c    |189|

0. **Match Rule 0:** If the closest REPD point to an OSM point is <250m away
1. **Match Rule 1a:** If the closest REPD point to an OSM point is <250m away and that OSM entry not already tagged with REPD id
  - **Match Rule 1b:** 1a and OSM objtype = "node"
  - **Match Rule 1c:** 1a and OSM objtype = "way"
  - **Match Rule 1d:** 1b and OSM objtype = "relation"
2. **Match Rule 2:** Match rule 1 + OSM tag_power = "plant" (ignores most matches found by rule 1)
3. **Match Rule 3a:** If the closest REPD point to an OSM point is closer than REPD id already tagged for that OSM.
  - **Match Rule 3b:** 3a but only those where closest REPD point is <250m
4. **Match Rule 4:** If the closest REPD point to an OSM point is <500m away
5. **Match Rule 5a:** Match rule 4 + filter by location is either "ground", "surface" or not labeled
  - **Match Rule 5b:** 5a, but only those where "plantref" isn't already filled in
  - **Match Rule 5c:** 5b, but only the novel matches (those where the closest REPD point is not already correctly tagged as the REPD id for that OSM)

**Example matches that appear correct:**

| Match rule | REPD Site Name| REPD id  | OSM id | OSM objtype |OSM "plantref" |OSM "tag_power"| Notes | Novel match find |
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
| 1a/b|Walton WTW PV|2388|2189625035|node|:x:|generator|See notes below 1.|:x:|
| 1a/b|John Lennon Airport Scheme|6750|6601390246 (and many other clustered nodes)|node|:x:|generator|See notes below 2.|✅|
|1a/c|Marchington Solar Farm|2036|746116910 to 746116917|way|:x:|generator|Checked with OSM (solar data instance) and gmaps|✅|
| 1a/d | Bumpers Farm Phase 1 | 2186|4483073|relation|relation/4476342|generator|The OSM id 4476342 (tag_power=plant) does already have the same REPD id tagged. |:x:|
| 2  |Crannaford Solar Farm|1984|290068926|way|way/290068926|plant|See notes below 3.|✅|
| 2  |Bishop's Waltham Solar Farm | 1325| 10221632|relation|relation/10221632|plant|There are 15 entries, including this one, in the OSM XML that have k="site" v="solar_farm"|✅|

**Example match notes:**

These refer to the table above.

1. There is an REPD tagged "way" that has a 2nd associated "way" without the REPD id. Both of these have many associated "node"s, which are already filtered out from the data loaded from Dan Stowell's processed csv (present in xml). However, looking at OSM (solar data instance) this particular "node"  appears to be located separately from the "way"s, but within Walton WTW. They have the same capacity, but different timestamp (7 year diff), which suggests some de-duplication of the OSM data may be required.
2. Seems like this one wasn't picked up by OSM editors as a likely REPD because it is not a solar farm, rather a collection of rooftop solar panels. Makes sense that these are all under "John Lennon Airport Scheme" and therefore are what this REPD id refers to. They are in an estate(s) near the airport and there is no alternative solar farm to which the REPD entry could refer nearby on the OSM map.
3. This also has the name of the farm already in OSM (but not the OSM csv), which looks like another field that can easily be used to match between OSM and REPD, it just isn't present for most OSM (but is for ~500). Note, it's very close to 2 other farms (but perhaps >250m away). There are nearby points in OSM that form part of the farm, linked by Dan's "plantref" attribute. This result, plus the one for Marchington solar farm, suggests we can use "plantref" to add repd_id to linked OSM entries, but that not all tag_power=plant OSM entries already have an repd_id.

| Match rule | REPD Site Name| REPD id  |REPD id in OSM| OSM id | Distance (m) OSM to matched REPD |Distance (m) OSM to tagged REPD | Notes | Novel match find |
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
|3a| Building ONE (Science museum group)/ Wroughton Airfield Solar Park|7252|1735|455150879|||What looks to be the case here is that 2 adjacent installments are tagged as being the same thing in OSM|:x:|
|3a/b| Bronwylfa Reservoir|1520|4734|722350032|||The tagged REPD id clearly a mistake and looking at OSM map the macthed REPD is correct|✅|
|3a|Newton Margate/Margate Solar Farm|5079|4878|746155615|311|398|See 1. below|?|

1. Looking at OSM, there is only one farm in the vicinity, so perhaps the other is missing. Unclear whether to trust the tagged REPD id in this instance. Doesn't look to be a duplicate in REPD because capacity (1.5 and 3 MWelec) and postcode (PL31 1HF and PL31 1HE) vary. Suggests that filtering on capacity can resolve.

| Match rule | REPD Site Name| REPD id  | OSM id | Distance (m) OSM to matched REPD |OSM capacity (MW)|REPD capacity (MW)| OSM location | OSM plantref |Notes | Correct |
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
|4 (and 5b) |Crossness Sewage Works PV|2385|2189686633|493|1.5|1.5|||Validated looking at OSM XML: <tag k="description" v="Large solar PV array at Crossness Sewage Works"/> |✅|
|4  |Ernesettle Solar Farm|5395|6767581041|499||5 |roof||Looking at OSM map, there is an estate with many rooftop solar panels, of which this is one, close to the solar farm|:x:|
| 5a | Grange Farm Solar Farm | 2120 | 634025632 |500||4.9||way/550883524|Checked with OSM map. The OSM with id=550883524 has the correct REPD id already.|✅|
| 5b | Lower Easton Farm | 1849 | 701370103 |496||13.5|||Checked with OSM map.|✅|

TODO: Can we add an SQL query that gets the repd_id for the OSM id of the plantref? This can be represented in the osm_repd_id of the match result, so we can see ignore those where the REPD id is already found.

Commit message:

add to counts table tag_power stuff

notebooks/data_matching.md, after:

Data matching ideas
===================

REPD and OSM matching
--------

**Notes:**

1. "location" OSM field shouldn't be "roof" for REPD installations (these are large solar farms). All those with a current REPD tag have "location" of "ground" or "surface".
2. Consider OSM object types: https://wiki.openstreetmap.org/wiki/Elements - perhaps may geographical matches will result from "nodes" that are not currently tagged with an REPD id but the equivalent "way" or "relation" does already have the REPD id
3. Dan Stowell has already done some work to combine OSM entries from the same solar plant with the "plantref" column, however it may not be useful to use this for matching if we ultimately want to use OSM data directly, rather than Dan's processing csv. Could be useful for validation purposes? (see data/as_received/solarpv-osm-uk-data-2019-11-17/dan_stowell_analysis/compile_osm_solar.py)
4. Since REPD contains things other than Solar panels, be sure to filter on Technology Type = Solar Photovoltaics
5. Looks like most of the OSM entries with "capacity" are those taken directly from REPD (already have a tagged REPD id), so not sure how useful capacity will be for matching

|  | Counts |
|---|---|
| OSM total | 126,939|
| REPD total | 5,686 |
|---|---|
| OSM without REPD id | 126,046|
| OSM with REPD id | 893|
| OSM with REPD id and objtype = node `*`| 0|
| OSM with REPD id and objtype = way `*`| 727|
| OSM with REPD id and objtype = relation `*`|166|
| REPD ids present in OSM `**` | 933 |
| OSM with REPD id not in REPD | 1 (one of the OSM entries appears to have the repd_id `0`)|
| OSM with REPD id in REPD |892 |
|---|---|
| Unique REPD ids in OSM | 924 |
| REPD ids in OSM inc. duplicates | 932 |
| REPD with id not in OSM |4,762|
|---|---|
| OSM with recorded capacity |1116 |
| OSM with recorded capacity and REPD id |872 |
| OSM with recorded capacity without REPD id | 244|
|---|---|
| OSM with REPD id and location = 'roof' | 0|
| OSM with REPD id and location = 'ground' | 22|
| OSM with REPD id and location = 'surface' | 9|
|---|---|
| OSM with "plantref"| 7,056|
| OSM with "plantref" and REPD id |845 |
| OSM with "plantref" and no REPD id | 6,211|
|---|---|
| OSM with tag_power = 'plant'| 917|
| OSM with tag_power = 'generator'| 126,022|
| OSM with tag_power = 'plant' and REPD id| 837|
| OSM with tag_power = 'generator' and REPD id| 56|

- `*` OSM object types: https://wiki.openstreetmap.org/wiki/Elements
- `**` including those within the same OSM entry and any that are not genuine REPD ids (found in REPD)

### Latitude/Longitude coordinate matching

**Distances from OSM with REPD id to matching REPD:**

| | Distance (meters) |
|---|---|
| Min | 6|
| 1st Q. | 89|
| Med |251 |
| Mean | 747|
| 3rd Q. | 542|
| Max | 149,610|

**Stats on REPD tagged OSM records:**

|  | Counts |
|---|---|
| OSM with REPD id with closest geographical match in REPD having that repd_id | 765|
| OSM with REPD id with closest geographical match in REPD being co-located repd_id | 3|
| OSM with REPD id with closest geographical match in REPD being non-matching/ non-co-located| 165|

**Matching results:**

| Match rule | Result |
|---|---|
| 0   | 3655 |
| 1a  | 3155 |
| 1b  | 158 |
| 1c  | 2979 |
| 1d  | 18  |
| 2   | 15  |
| 3a   | 110 |
|3b    | 50  |
|4     | 6281|
|5a     | 5231|
|5b    |224|
|5c    |189|

0. **Match Rule 0:** If the closest REPD point to an OSM point is <250m away
1. **Match Rule 1a:** If the closest REPD point to an OSM point is <250m away and that OSM entry not already tagged with REPD id
  - **Match Rule 1b:** 1a and OSM objtype = "node"
  - **Match Rule 1c:** 1a and OSM objtype = "way"
  - **Match Rule 1d:** 1b and OSM objtype = "relation"
2. **Match Rule 2:** Match rule 1 + OSM tag_power = "plant" (ignores most matches found by rule 1)
3. **Match Rule 3a:** If the closest REPD point to an OSM point is closer than REPD id already tagged for that OSM.
  - **Match Rule 3b:** 3a but only those where closest REPD point is <250m
4. **Match Rule 4:** If the closest REPD point to an OSM point is <500m away
5. **Match Rule 5a:** Match rule 4 + filter by location is either "ground", "surface" or not labeled
  - **Match Rule 5b:** 5a, but only those where "plantref" isn't already filled in
  - **Match Rule 5c:** 5b, but only the novel matches (those where the closest REPD point is not already correctly tagged as the REPD id for that OSM)

**Example matches that appear correct:**

| Match rule | REPD Site Name| REPD id  | OSM id | OSM objtype |OSM "plantref" |OSM "tag_power"| Notes | Novel match find |
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
| 1a/b|Walton WTW PV|2388|2189625035|node|:x:|generator|See notes below 1.|:x:|
| 1a/b|John Lennon Airport Scheme|6750|6601390246 (and many other clustered nodes)|node|:x:|generator|See notes below 2.|✅|
|1a/c|Marchington Solar Farm|2036|746116910 to 746116917|way|:x:|generator|Checked with OSM (solar data instance) and gmaps|✅|
| 1a/d | Bumpers Farm Phase 1 | 2186|4483073|relation|relation/4476342|generator|The OSM id 4476342 (tag_power=plant) does already have the same REPD id tagged. |:x:|
| 2  |Crannaford Solar Farm|1984|290068926|way|way/290068926|plant|See notes below 3.|✅|
| 2  |Bishop's Waltham Solar Farm | 1325| 10221632|relation|relation/10221632|plant|There are 15 entries, including this one, in the OSM XML that have k="site" v="solar_farm"|✅|

**Example match notes:**

These refer to the table above.

1. There is an REPD tagged "way" that has a 2nd associated "way" without the REPD id. Both of these have many associated "node"s, which are already filtered out from the data loaded from Dan Stowell's processed csv (present in xml). However, looking at OSM (solar data instance) this particular "node"  appears to be located separately from the "way"s, but within Walton WTW. They have the same capacity, but different timestamp (7 year diff), which suggests some de-duplication of the OSM data may be required.
2. Seems like this one wasn't picked up by OSM editors as a likely REPD because it is not a solar farm, rather a collection of rooftop solar panels. Makes sense that these are all under "John Lennon Airport Scheme" and therefore are what this REPD id refers to. They are in an estate(s) near the airport and there is no alternative solar farm to which the REPD entry could refer nearby on the OSM map.
3. This also has the name of the farm already in OSM (but not the OSM csv), which looks like another field that can easily be used to match between OSM and REPD, it just isn't present for most OSM (but is for ~500). Note, it's very close to 2 other farms (but perhaps >250m away). There are nearby points in OSM that form part of the farm, linked by Dan's "plantref" attribute. This result, plus the one for Marchington solar farm, suggests we can use "plantref" to add repd_id to linked OSM entries, but that not all tag_power=plant OSM entries already have an repd_id.

| Match rule | REPD Site Name| REPD id  |REPD id in OSM| OSM id | Distance (m) OSM to matched REPD |Distance (m) OSM to tagged REPD | Notes | Novel match find |
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
|3a| Building ONE (Science museum group)/ Wroughton Airfield Solar Park|7252|1735|455150879|||What looks to be the case here is that 2 adjacent installments are tagged as being the same thing in OSM|:x:|
|3a/b| Bronwylfa Reservoir|1520|4734|722350032|||The tagged REPD id clearly a mistake and looking at OSM map the macthed REPD is correct|✅|
|3a|Newton Margate/Margate Solar Farm|5079|4878|746155615|311|398|See 1. below|?|

1. Looking at OSM, there is only one farm in the vicinity, so perhaps the other is missing. Unclear whether to trust the tagged REPD id in this instance. Doesn't look to be a duplicate in REPD because capacity (1.5 and 3 MWelec) and postcode (PL31 1HF and PL31 1HE) vary. Suggests that filtering on capacity can resolve.

| Match rule | REPD Site Name| REPD id  | OSM id | Distance (m) OSM to matched REPD |OSM capacity (MW)|REPD capacity (MW)| OSM location | OSM plantref |Notes | Correct |
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
|4 (and 5b) |Crossness Sewage Works PV|2385|2189686633|493|1.5|1.5|||Validated looking at OSM XML: <tag k="description" v="Large solar PV array at Crossness Sewage Works"/> |✅|
|4  |Ernesettle Solar Farm|5395|6767581041|499||5 |roof||Looking at OSM map, there is an estate with many rooftop solar panels, of which this is one, close to the solar farm|:x:|
| 5a | Grange Farm Solar Farm | 2120 | 634025632 |500||4.9||way/550883524|Checked with OSM map. The OSM with id=550883524 has the correct REPD id already.|✅|
| 5b | Lower Easton Farm | 1849 | 701370103 |496||13.5|||Checked with OSM map.|✅|

TODO: Can we add an SQL query that gets the repd_id for the OSM id of the plantref? This can be represented in the osm_repd_id of the match result, so we can see ignore those where the REPD id is already found.
