% Notes for REG/Dan catchup on Monday, 9 December


# AGENDA

## Intros (meet academic collabs)
## Review of 
## Updates from James and Ed on dataset investigations and spinup
## Discuss next steps including:
      - infrastructure decisions
      - plans with Sheffield (extra undergrad data annotations and/or validation of our aggregated data)

# Updates

## What is the overlap between REPD and OSM current dataset?

|                  |   Records |
|------------------|----------:|
| OSM              | ~ 126,000 |
| REPD             |     5,686 |
|------------------|----------:|
| OSM              |           |
| - tagged as REPD |       893 |


- Can we match geographically? 
  - some that are tagged the same in OSM and REPD are > 100 km distant
  
- What's in OSM that we could in principle use for F-S?

- What is the actual infrastructure? Is it, say, a script that (a) downloads most recent data (OSM,
  FiT, REPD), identifies new entries, matches those in OSM, and then produces a file suitable for
  upload?
  
# MINUTES

## Attending 

- Jamie Taylor (Sheffield)
- Dan Stowell
- Damien Tanner (Open Climate Fix)




## Intros (meet academic collabs)
## Review of project goals

- Data from OSM
- FiT and REPD databases from govt.
- "Descarte lab in Oxford" machine-vision detections, with polygons
- PVout has output for some sites
- Also "microgen" which is like PVout from Sheffied

GOAL: Combine all *three* (or four) datasets into one "open-source" dataset.
    - So that OpenClimateFix can make use of it
    - In a "flat file" (either csv or geo-json)
    
## Updates from James and Ed on dataset investigations and spinup

- Ed showed six examples from the "core three" datasets

## Discuss next steps including:
      - infrastructure decisions
      - plans with Sheffield (extra undergrad data annotations and/or validation of our aggregated data)

# James G Notes

OSM/plant:output:electricity is a capacity, but could be anything from "copied
from REPD" to "written next to the site".

REPD is "not very accurate in terms of capacities" because it is "what was
submitted to the planning database" rather than what was actually built. So
perhaps it's an upper limit, or maybe there are extensions that enter as a new
row in the database. 

Planning database should be "DC capacity" (which is what Sheffield like)

But installers, sometimes give "AC capacity". That's the capacity of the
inverter, but it's usual to undersize the inverter (relative to the max
capacity) because it's often cloudy.

When a site adds capacity, it could:
    - not appear in the REPD 
    - added as a second row at the same location

JG asks that surely someone central must know how much generation was produced?
The arguments seem to be that not. (Though JG still doesn't quite understand
it.)

DT asks JT what he would do:
 - JT would like "small scale"
 - Would like installation dates and installed capacities

FiTs have but a postcode outcode and an LSOA. But there are lots of smaller ones
if FiTs that won't be in REPD.

"Commercial" scale is sort of 
 - Probably in FiT but too small to be in REPD
 - But large enough in OSM to have a polygon in OSM

# Dan S Notes

* We will focus on systems for which we have at least one polygon (from OSM and/or Descartes). This discards 90% of the OSM point-only data (giving us around 10,000), but we're partly banking on future work (inc machine vision) that will turn those points into polygons.

* From the FiT data, we will focus particularly on the commercial-scale systems (approx 27,000 / approx 1.5 GW), because these are most likely to give us feasible-and-useful matchings against the polygon data.

* Our main project outputs will be scripts to perform the matchings/deduplications, plus the data outputs resulting from them. Data outputs will probably be formatted as GeoJSON or CSV-with-WKT, which are easy to output and data-consumer-friendly.
We will not focus on loading our data into an OSM server instance; that can happen independently and is not critical.
We don't worry at this point about the approach being scalable; more important is to be able to iterate on getting the matching procedures working.

* Even for large solar farms, the power capacity listed in REPD is not to be taken literally, even if it correlates with size -- since it's often an overambitious upper limit. We can still use such declared capacities for matching, even while we'd like to find some alternate source to help infer those numbers (PVOutput or Microgen).

## Learnings

### Possible matching fields

- There's a "name" field in FiT and REPD that sometimes is useful to match. <- *Ed notes, this is incorrect for FiT, it's unsuitable for matching because only in REPD*
- Installation date tends to differ, say by a few months (sometimes there are
  multiple phases, and this tend to confuse things)
- Postcode (but can sometimes refer to head office) -- and often there are
  several in some location (but it might be okay to aggregate)


### What things we'd like

- Installation date
- Capacity
- Full postcode/LSOA (for things in OSM but not in FiT, say) because then we can
  ask volunteers to go and locate them.

### Simplifications

Cut-off if we just want to look a "commercial" installations
  - We might remove from FiT anyone "domestic" (see Installation Type) 
  - And also remove from OSM anyone without a polygon (maybe...)


# ACTIONS

* JG/Ed: Email "Jack", the OCF founder, and ask about PVout. Maybe some PVout people are
  actually on FiT or REPD and we can look at their actual max output and the
  claimed capacities.
  
* What about ROC dataset?

* JT to share their matches between ROCs and REPD.
  - could give "AC capacity"
  - could get additional information about individual phases of project

* JT to share their microgen database

* Ed/JG: Figure out how to get a unique identifier for FiT.

* JG: Maybe rethink plan


