data/README.md, before:

# Notes on the data sources

NOTE: The subdirectories `as_received` and `raw` should be set up to be symbolic links to those
directories on the shared drive.

## Feed-in Tariff (FiT)

Latest data taken from: https://www.ofgem.gov.uk/publications-and-updates/feed-tariff-installation-report-30-september-2019

There are hundreds of thousands of entries. Geolocation is imprecise (it's only given as postcode districts and/or LSOA districts).

Includes wind and other tech as well as solar. Make sure to filter on Technology=Photovoltaic.

## Renewable Energy Planning Database (REPD)

https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/renewable-energy-planning-database-monthly-extract

Official UK data from the "renewable energy planning database". This only has
the larger solar farms (approx 1000) and geolocations are imprecise (mainly
unreliable street addresses). However it includes useful metadata - capacity,
install date, etc.

Note: the majority of REPD solar farms (approx 900) have already been entered into OSM.

## Open Streetmap

OSM: OpenStreetMap solar PV objects for the UK. Approx 120,000 small-scale PV and 900 solar farms. The data is in OSM's pbf format, and it's extracted from OSM database as of 2019-11-17. It's structured data. Also included an XML version.


Data fields
========

Dan Stowell says:

A word about "primary keys": objects in OSM have identifiers and they're generally stable, though they're not guaranteed persistent (if a user deletes an object and then maps it again as a completely new object, there's not much we can do about that).

The FiT data contains no primary key at all. The REPD data does have unique identifiers. For about 900 solar farms in OSM, we've added a tag "repd:id" which allows you to connect an OSM solar farm directly to its corresponding entry in REPD.

| Icon | Meaning |
| ---  | --- |
| :x:  | Data doesn't have this field |
| :ballot_box_with_check: | Data has this field, with caveats |
| ✅ | Data has this field |
|**Bold text** | Actual name of field in data |

| Field type | Field | OpenStreetMap | FiT | REPD
|---|---|:---:|:---:|:---:|
| Location | Post code | :x: | **Postcode**:ballot_box_with_check: (First half only, all entries, also includes other address fields) | **Post Code** :ballot_box_with_check: (Full post code, not all entries, also includes other address fields)|
| Location | Latitude and Longitude | **lat**, **lon** ✅ | :x: | :x: |
| Location| X/Y coords (BNG)| :x: | :x: | **X-coordinate**, **Y-coordinate** ✅ |
| Location | LLSOA (Lower Layer Super Output Area) | :x: | **LLSOA code** ✅ | :x: |
| Identifier|REPD id | **tag_repd:id** :ballot_box_with_check: (~900 for which this relevant) | :x: | **Ref ID** ✅|
| FiT tariff info | Various | :x: | :ballot_box_with_check: **Tariff code**, **Tariff description**| :ballot_box_with_check: **FiT Tariff (p/kWh)**

British National Grid X/Y coordinates can be converted to latitude and longitude. Here is a [Python package](https://pypi.org/project/bng-latlon/) for that.

Doesn't look easily possible to match on tariff info.

A few more examples that use info that Dan Stowell has calculated (see [compile_osm_solar.py](open-street-maps/solarpv-osm-uk-data-20191117/dan_stowell_osm_analysis/compile_osm_solar.py)) rather than OSM data fields:

| Field type | Field | OpenStreetMap | FiT | REPD
|---|---|:---:|:---:|:---:|
| Size| Area | **calc_area** :ballot_box_with_check: (not all entries) | :x:| :x:|
| Capacity| Capacity | **calc_capacity**:ballot_box_with_check: (not all entries)| **Installed capacity**, **Declared net capacity** ✅ (All entries)| **Installed Capacity (MWelec)** ✅ (All entries) |


Example Matches (found manually)
---------

| OpenStreetMap | FiT | REPD |
|:---:|:---:|:---:|
| ✅ **id** = 9537182, **plantref** = relation/9537182, **tag_repd:id** = 6132 | :x: Filtering part 2 of the report spreadsheet by **Postcode** = UB2 and **Local authority** = Hounslow gives 22 results | ✅**Ref ID** = 6132 |
| ✅ **id** = 684035481, **plantref** = way/684035481, **tag_repd:id** = 2143, **calc_capacity** = 18,800| :ballot_box_with_check: Possible match - Row 73582 (feed-in_tariff_installation_report_30_september_2019_-_part_1.xlsx) **Installed capacity** = 18, **Postcode** = CO4| ✅ **Ref ID** = 2143, **Installed Capacity (MWelec)** = 18.8, **Post Code** = CO4 5NW|

| |  | I | II | III | IV | V | VI (OSM/REPD far apart)|
|:---:|:---:|:---:|:---:|:---:|:---:|:---:|:---:|
| **OSM** | id | 9537182 | 684035481| 10304120| 10305610|10298564 | 688883405 |
|  | plant:output:electricity | 1.7 MW | 18.8 MW| 3.5 MW| 1 MW| 5 MW| 1.5 MW |
|  | repd:id  | 6132 |2143 |5207 |1994 | 5834| 1605 |
| | timestamp | 2019-05-02T20:52:30Z |2019-05-03T21:41:29Z |2019-11-16T14:03:13Z | 2019-11-16T21:30:41Z| 2019-11-14T22:35:13Z| 2019-11-16T18:42:25Z |
|  | lat | 51.496088 | 51.935457| 51.558094|52.019079 | 52.89991| 50.952354 |
| | lon | -0.407339 |0.93541 | -2.655681| -0.011644|-3.015247 | -3.474469 |
| **REPD** | Ref ID  | 6132 | 2143| 5207| 1994| 5834| 1605|
|  | Installed Capacity (MWelec)  | 1.7 | 18.8| 3.5| 1| 5| 1.5
|  | Post Code | UB2 5XU | CO4 5NW| BS35 4NL| SG8 8AZ| :x:| EX16 9QH |
|  | Planning Application Submitted | 28/07/2015|16/06/2014	 |13/04/2015 |24/11/2013 | 23/09/2015| 25/09/2012|
|  | Planning Permission Granted | 14/09/2015 |15/09/2014 | 01/09/2015| 03/12/2013| 23/12/2015| 22/03/2013 |
|  | Under Construction | 19/04/2016 |26/11/2014 | 28/02/2015| :x:| 12/12/2016| :x:|
|  | Operational |19/05/2016 | 19/03/2015 | 31/03/2016| 08/03/2014| 15/02/2017| 29/04/2013 |
|  | Record Last Updated (dd/mm/yyyy) | 31/05/2016 |14/08/2015 |17/06/2016 | 26/08/2014| 04/12/2017| 10/06/2013 |
|  | FiT Tariff (p/kWh) | :x: |1.4 |:x: | :x:| :x:| :x: |
|  | Address | Western International Market, Hayes Road, Southall, London |Langham, Colchester | Land adjacent to Church Road and the M49, Severn Beach, Bristol| Hatchpen Farm, Reed, Royston|Land At, Rhosygadfa, Gobowen, Oswestry | TIVERTON, DEVON |
|  | X-coordinate  | 510,606 |601,454 | 354,510| 536,397|331,810 | 250,572 |
|  | Y-coordinate  | 178,655 |231,228 | 184,911| 237,730|334,117 | 140,713 |
| REPD derived | lat  | 51.496026 | 51.943065| 51.561233|52.02123 | 52.900149| 51.146121 |
| | lon  | -0.408078 |0.929579 | -2.657613| -0.013603|-3.01518 | -4.137665 |
| **FiT**| Installed capacity  |  | 18| | | |
| | Declared net capacity  |  | 18| | | |
| | Postcode  |  | CO4| | | |
| | Constituency | | Colchester | | | |
| | Application date | | 07/09/2015| | | |
| | Commissioning date  |  | 27/07/2015| | | |
| | Tariff code |  | PV/10-50/06H-1| | | |
| | Tariff description |  | PV (>10Âª50kW)-2015/16 - Degression - H| | | |
| | Installation type | | Non Domestic (Commercial)| |
| | LLSOA code | | E01021668 | | | |


VI
---

Lat offset: (51.146121 - 50.952354) x 110KM = **~21KM**

Lon offset: (-4.137665 - -3.474469) x 65KM = **~-43KM**

Commit message:

Automate generation of "processed" datasets

data/README.md, after:

# Directory structure

NOTE: The subdirectories `as_received` and `raw` should be set up to be symbolic
links to those directories on the shared drive.

`as_received`

: Datasets precisely in the form in which we originally got them, unchanged in
  content or format, whether text or binary, open or proprietary.

`raw`

: Data that has been manually edited, at least to change the format to one that
  we can use programmatically (if required) but also there may a small number of
  edits to the data that do not seem to be generalisable, or we can't work out
  how to automate, or are not likely to re-occur next time we download the data.

`processed`

: Datasets that have been programmatically modified (typically from `raw`). Note
  that the `processed` directory is _local_, it is like a “compiled code”
  directory: not under version control but neither on the shared drive.


# Notes on the data sources

## Feed-in Tariff (FiT)

Latest data taken from: https://www.ofgem.gov.uk/publications-and-updates/feed-tariff-installation-report-30-september-2019

There are hundreds of thousands of entries. Geolocation is imprecise (it's only given as postcode districts and/or LSOA districts).

Includes wind and other tech as well as solar. Make sure to filter on Technology=Photovoltaic.

## Renewable Energy Planning Database (REPD)

https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/renewable-energy-planning-database-monthly-extract

Official UK data from the "renewable energy planning database". This only has
the larger solar farms (approx 1000) and geolocations are imprecise (mainly
unreliable street addresses). However it includes useful metadata - capacity,
install date, etc.

Note: the majority of REPD solar farms (approx 900) have already been entered into OSM.

## Open Streetmap

OSM: OpenStreetMap solar PV objects for the UK. Approx 120,000 small-scale PV and 900 solar farms. The data is in OSM's pbf format, and it's extracted from OSM database as of 2019-11-17. It's structured data. Also included an XML version.


Data fields
========

Dan Stowell says:

A word about "primary keys": objects in OSM have identifiers and they're generally stable, though they're not guaranteed persistent (if a user deletes an object and then maps it again as a completely new object, there's not much we can do about that).

The FiT data contains no primary key at all. The REPD data does have unique identifiers. For about 900 solar farms in OSM, we've added a tag "repd:id" which allows you to connect an OSM solar farm directly to its corresponding entry in REPD.

| Icon | Meaning |
| ---  | --- |
| :x:  | Data doesn't have this field |
| :ballot_box_with_check: | Data has this field, with caveats |
| ✅ | Data has this field |
|**Bold text** | Actual name of field in data |

| Field type | Field | OpenStreetMap | FiT | REPD
|---|---|:---:|:---:|:---:|
| Location | Post code | :x: | **Postcode**:ballot_box_with_check: (First half only, all entries, also includes other address fields) | **Post Code** :ballot_box_with_check: (Full post code, not all entries, also includes other address fields)|
| Location | Latitude and Longitude | **lat**, **lon** ✅ | :x: | :x: |
| Location| X/Y coords (BNG)| :x: | :x: | **X-coordinate**, **Y-coordinate** ✅ |
| Location | LLSOA (Lower Layer Super Output Area) | :x: | **LLSOA code** ✅ | :x: |
| Identifier|REPD id | **tag_repd:id** :ballot_box_with_check: (~900 for which this relevant) | :x: | **Ref ID** ✅|
| FiT tariff info | Various | :x: | :ballot_box_with_check: **Tariff code**, **Tariff description**| :ballot_box_with_check: **FiT Tariff (p/kWh)**

British National Grid X/Y coordinates can be converted to latitude and longitude. Here is a [Python package](https://pypi.org/project/bng-latlon/) for that.

Doesn't look easily possible to match on tariff info.

A few more examples that use info that Dan Stowell has calculated (see [compile_osm_solar.py](open-street-maps/solarpv-osm-uk-data-20191117/dan_stowell_osm_analysis/compile_osm_solar.py)) rather than OSM data fields:

| Field type | Field | OpenStreetMap | FiT | REPD
|---|---|:---:|:---:|:---:|
| Size| Area | **calc_area** :ballot_box_with_check: (not all entries) | :x:| :x:|
| Capacity| Capacity | **calc_capacity**:ballot_box_with_check: (not all entries)| **Installed capacity**, **Declared net capacity** ✅ (All entries)| **Installed Capacity (MWelec)** ✅ (All entries) |


Example Matches (found manually)
---------

| OpenStreetMap | FiT | REPD |
|:---:|:---:|:---:|
| ✅ **id** = 9537182, **plantref** = relation/9537182, **tag_repd:id** = 6132 | :x: Filtering part 2 of the report spreadsheet by **Postcode** = UB2 and **Local authority** = Hounslow gives 22 results | ✅**Ref ID** = 6132 |
| ✅ **id** = 684035481, **plantref** = way/684035481, **tag_repd:id** = 2143, **calc_capacity** = 18,800| :ballot_box_with_check: Possible match - Row 73582 (feed-in_tariff_installation_report_30_september_2019_-_part_1.xlsx) **Installed capacity** = 18, **Postcode** = CO4| ✅ **Ref ID** = 2143, **Installed Capacity (MWelec)** = 18.8, **Post Code** = CO4 5NW|

| |  | I | II | III | IV | V | VI (OSM/REPD far apart)|
|:---:|:---:|:---:|:---:|:---:|:---:|:---:|:---:|
| **OSM** | id | 9537182 | 684035481| 10304120| 10305610|10298564 | 688883405 |
|  | plant:output:electricity | 1.7 MW | 18.8 MW| 3.5 MW| 1 MW| 5 MW| 1.5 MW |
|  | repd:id  | 6132 |2143 |5207 |1994 | 5834| 1605 |
| | timestamp | 2019-05-02T20:52:30Z |2019-05-03T21:41:29Z |2019-11-16T14:03:13Z | 2019-11-16T21:30:41Z| 2019-11-14T22:35:13Z| 2019-11-16T18:42:25Z |
|  | lat | 51.496088 | 51.935457| 51.558094|52.019079 | 52.89991| 50.952354 |
| | lon | -0.407339 |0.93541 | -2.655681| -0.011644|-3.015247 | -3.474469 |
| **REPD** | Ref ID  | 6132 | 2143| 5207| 1994| 5834| 1605|
|  | Installed Capacity (MWelec)  | 1.7 | 18.8| 3.5| 1| 5| 1.5
|  | Post Code | UB2 5XU | CO4 5NW| BS35 4NL| SG8 8AZ| :x:| EX16 9QH |
|  | Planning Application Submitted | 28/07/2015|16/06/2014	 |13/04/2015 |24/11/2013 | 23/09/2015| 25/09/2012|
|  | Planning Permission Granted | 14/09/2015 |15/09/2014 | 01/09/2015| 03/12/2013| 23/12/2015| 22/03/2013 |
|  | Under Construction | 19/04/2016 |26/11/2014 | 28/02/2015| :x:| 12/12/2016| :x:|
|  | Operational |19/05/2016 | 19/03/2015 | 31/03/2016| 08/03/2014| 15/02/2017| 29/04/2013 |
|  | Record Last Updated (dd/mm/yyyy) | 31/05/2016 |14/08/2015 |17/06/2016 | 26/08/2014| 04/12/2017| 10/06/2013 |
|  | FiT Tariff (p/kWh) | :x: |1.4 |:x: | :x:| :x:| :x: |
|  | Address | Western International Market, Hayes Road, Southall, London |Langham, Colchester | Land adjacent to Church Road and the M49, Severn Beach, Bristol| Hatchpen Farm, Reed, Royston|Land At, Rhosygadfa, Gobowen, Oswestry | TIVERTON, DEVON |
|  | X-coordinate  | 510,606 |601,454 | 354,510| 536,397|331,810 | 250,572 |
|  | Y-coordinate  | 178,655 |231,228 | 184,911| 237,730|334,117 | 140,713 |
| REPD derived | lat  | 51.496026 | 51.943065| 51.561233|52.02123 | 52.900149| 51.146121 |
| | lon  | -0.408078 |0.929579 | -2.657613| -0.013603|-3.01518 | -4.137665 |
| **FiT**| Installed capacity  |  | 18| | | |
| | Declared net capacity  |  | 18| | | |
| | Postcode  |  | CO4| | | |
| | Constituency | | Colchester | | | |
| | Application date | | 07/09/2015| | | |
| | Commissioning date  |  | 27/07/2015| | | |
| | Tariff code |  | PV/10-50/06H-1| | | |
| | Tariff description |  | PV (>10Âª50kW)-2015/16 - Degression - H| | | |
| | Installation type | | Non Domestic (Commercial)| |
| | LLSOA code | | E01021668 | | | |


VI
---

Lat offset: (51.146121 - 50.952354) x 110KM = **~21KM**

Lon offset: (-4.137665 - -3.474469) x 65KM = **~-43KM**
